Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to learn how to capture the user's input on a message box.
So we're going to learn how to capture the answer of a user.
If the user clicks on a certain button on the message box,
then I need to take some actions based on that,
so we'll learn how to do that.
So basically here the message box buttons,
each one of them has the value.
So the VB okay,
the okay button has a certain value.
The cancel has another value to abort.
His three try is for and so on and so forth.
So basically,
the idea is that we will assign these values to a variable,
and then we will put an if statement testing what the value is.
And if the value,
for example,
is one or VB OK,
then we will do this in this and that if the values to then we will do this in this and
that and so on and so forth.
So let's have an example.
Okay,
guys,
So I've created a simple message box.
The asks the user a very simple question.
Do you love chocolate and it will have yes and no buttons.
And it's gonna be a VB question and title of chocolate.
So if you run that,
these air will have this question and he can answer with either yes or no.
So if you answers either yes or known at the moment,
nothing will happen.
So to make something happen,
we need to actually assign the answer of the message box to a variable and for the data
type of the variable will have several options are creator,
so I'll create a variable named answer.
And the data type for this is the one I prefer is VB message box result.
And the message box result is basically an enumeration,
and this is a fancy word,
however Onley means is that just a list of values having Constance assigned to them?
So now we need to assign the message box to the variable answer,
and you can see when a red equals.
I get a list of the different buttons that the user can click.
But we won't use this list right now,
and if I just click away,
I will get an error.
As you can see here,
the reason for that is that if you read the message box on the right hand side of an
assignment operator like the equal sign,
you need to put the arguments between brackets.
Okay,
so this is something in the V b A syntax.
So now we've assigned the message box to the answer variable.
So now whatever answer the user gives us will be stored in the variable cold answer.
Okay,
so now we need to put an if statement.
So if answer equals,
for example,
here,
we've got yes and no buttons only.
So if answer equals V B s,
then message box this case just gonna be a simple message box.
Great.
I love chocolate too.
And else if answer is equal to vb No than message box.
Why not?
Chocolate is delicious.
And if OK,
so now,
based on the user's answer,
he will get one of these two message boxes.
So if we run this code here,
Do you love chocolate?
If I answer Yes.
Great.
I love chocolate too.
And if I ran again,
Do you love chocolate?
No.
Why not?
Chocolate is delicious.
So based on the user's answer,
you can take any kind of actions if you put an if statement you can put any lines of code
here on the if statements and do whatever you want you could also,
instead of VBS and VB no used their corresponding values.
So instead of VBS,
you could put a six and vb no,
you could put a seven here and you can use their corresponding values and this will work to
you could also change the data type to an integer and this will work to with the numbers
and also you could write equals VBS and VB No,
and this works as well.
However,
the advantage of using a VB message box result is that you do get the drop down menu while
you're typing the variable.
So when you write,
answer equals,
you start getting the list and you don't need to worry about remembering the answers.
Okay,
so this is why I'd recommend using the VB message box Result data type in this case.
So thank you guys for watching this video and I'll see on the next one